Introduction
============

3Di is an integral, process-based, numerical model for water safety and water management. It can be used for the computation of water flow in 1D and 2D. It is developed by a consortium consisting of members from Stelling Hydraulics, Deltares, TU Delft and Nelen en Schuurmans. With 3Di it is possible to calculate faster while using a bigger level of detail, especially for a large areas. This makes 3Di suitable for on-line applications, feasibility studies and for example impact studies for climate change. Results can be viewed both during the simulation and can be analysed and processed after the simulation as a post-processing step. Moreover, one can interactively influence the simulation by changing the forcings, like rain and wind and changing model components like cross-sections, breaches etc. 

With the 3Di modelling tool it is possible to calculate all hydrological processes integrated in one model. The basis of the model is a state-of-the-art numeric calculation scheme. This scheme makes it possible to create calculations with bigger cells which are based on detailed information of the smaller underlying grids. This approach is particularly suitable for surface runoff. The scheme is combined with elements that represent channel flow, structures and sewerage systems. The model can therefore be used for rainfall-runoff, flooding  and sewerage simulations. Meaning, it can be used for issues related to multilayer safety, risk of flooding and analysing regional and urban water systems.

The computational core is based on the so-called subgrid technique. This technique is introduced by Prof. dr. ir. G. S. Stelling, who worked in close collaboration with Prof. dr. ir. V. Casulli at several facets of the subgrid technique. Prof. Stelling allowed for a uniquely fast introduction from scientific proof to a fully operation model. 

In this document, a detailed description of the methods used in 3Di and tutorials how it is used are presented. This document will help the novice as well as the experienced 3Di-user. For the beginner it contains background information and key points for creating a first model, while for the experienced user it will serve as a reference work. 

